#summary Build, install, uninstall.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Install binaries =

== MS Windows ==

You can get ready-to-run binary for MS Windows on
[http://code.google.com/p/hexglass/downloads/list download page].

== Ubuntu Linux ==

You can install hexglass from {{{ppa:mezomish/qtapps}}}:

{{{
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mezomish/qtapps
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install hexglass
}}}

Thanks to *[http://murzin.ca/ Mikhail Murzin <mezomish@gmail.com>]*

== SuSE Linux ==

You can search hexglass at [http://software.opensuse.org/search?q=hexglass openSUSE Build Service search engine] for one-click-install. Thanks to *Lazy_Kent*.

== Arch Linux ==

You can install hexglass fom AUR:

{{{
$ yaourt hexglass
}}}

(You need to
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Yaourt install yaourt]
if you do not have it yet.)

= Build from sources =

== Quick guide ==

Before building, you will need to have the Qt4 library and developers
tools installed on your system.

Get source codes from
[http://code.google.com/p/hexglass/downloads/list download page].
Unpack them, and enter to directory with sources.

Build:

{{{
$ qmake # or qmake-qt4
$ make  # or mingw32-make or nmake or other
}}}

Test it:

{{{
$ ./hexglass # or hexglass.exe ,-)
}}}

Install:

{{{
$ sudo make install
}}}

Uninstall:

{{{
$ sudo make uninstall
}}}

= Build-time settings =

If you prepare the binary for wide distribution,
or just want to customise binary for yourself,
you can do it at build-time.

== Installation path ==

You can specify alternative installation root
(usefull to prepare packages):

{{{
$ make INSTALL_ROOT=/tmp/pkg_root
}}}

== Default settings ==

You can specify default size and skin:

{{{
$ qmake 'DEFINES += DEFAULT_SIZE=0 DEFAULT_SKIN=0'
}}}

Valid values are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.

= Build static binary for MS Windows using MinGW =

== Build Qt library ==

First, [http://www.mingw.org/wiki/InstallationHOWTOforMinGW get and install MinGW].

Get sources of Qt library
(download
ftp://ftp.trolltech.com/qt/source/qt-everywhere-opensource-src-4.7.1.tar.gz
or samthing like).

Unpack, say, into {{{C:\qt\qt-everywhere-opensource-src-4.7.1}}} and
goto this directory.

Edit the file {{{mkspecs/win32-g++/qmake.conf}}}. Add flag
{{{QMAKE_LFLAGS += -static}}}

Now, create and execute .bat-file:

{{{
SET QTDIR=c:\qt\qt-everywhere-opensource-src-4.7.1
SET PATH=c:\mingw\bin;%QTDIR%\bin;%PATH%

configure -opensource -release ^
 -nomake examples -nomake demos -nomake tools ^
 -nomake translations -nomake docs ^
 -no-exceptions -no-stl -no-rtti ^
 -no-qt3support -no-scripttools -no-openssl -no-opengl ^
 -no-dsp -no-webkit -no-phonon ^
 -no-style-motif -no-style-cde -no-style-cleanlooks ^
 -no-style-plastique ^
 -no-sql-sqlite -no-script -no-scripttools -no-declarative ^
 -static -platform win32-g++

mingw32-make
}}}

Wait for complete build process, and now you have Qt library.

== Build HexGlass ==

Get source codes from
[http://code.google.com/p/hexglass/downloads/list download page],
unpack them, enter to directory with sources and execute .bat-file:

{{{
SET QTDIR=c:\qt\qt-everywhere-opensource-src-4.7.1
SET PATH=c:\mingw\bin;%QTDIR%\bin;%PATH%

qmake
mingw32-make
}}}

Look into {{{release}}} directory; {{{hexglass.exe}}} here.
